[SOUND] Hi, to this moment,
we have already discussed all
basics new things which build up to
a big solution like featured generation,
validation, minimalist codings and so on.
We went through several
competitions together and
tried our best to unite everything
we learn into one huge framework.
But as with any other set of tools,
there are a lot of heuristics which
people often find only with a trial and
error approach,
spending significant time on learning
how to use these tools efficiently.
So to help you out here,
in this video we'll share things we
learned the hard way, by experience.
These things may vary from
one person to another.
So we decided that everyone on class will
present his own guidelines personally,
to stress the possible
diversity in a broad issues and
to make an accent on different moments.
Some notes might seem obvious to you,
some may not.
But be sure for even some of them or
at least no one involve them.
Can save you a lot of time.
So, let's start.
When we want to enter a competition,
define your goals and
try to estimate what you can
get out of your participation.
You may want to learn more
about an interesting problem.
You may want to get acquainted
with new software tools and
packages, or
you may want to try to hunt for a medal.
Each of these goals will influence what
competition you choose to participate in.
If you want to learn more
about an interesting problem,
you may want the competition to have
a wide discussion on the forums.
For example, if you are interested in
data science, in application to medicine,
you can try to predict lung cancer
in the Data Science Bowl 2017.
Or to predict seizures in long
term human EEG recordings.
In the Melbourne University
Seizure Prediction Competition.
If you want to get acquainted
with new software tools,
you may want the competition
to have required tutorials.
For example, if you want to
learn a neural networks library.
You may choose any of competitions with
images like the nature conservancy
features, monitoring competition.
Or the planet, understanding
the Amazon from space competition.
And if you want to try to hunt for
a medal, you may want to check how
many submissions do participants have.
And if the points that people have
over one hundred submissions,
it can be a clear sign of legible
problem or difficulties in validation
includes an inconsistency of
validation and leaderboard scores.
On the other hand, if there are people
with few submissions in the top,
that usually means there should be
a non-trivial approach to this competition
or it's discovered only by few people.
Beside that, you may want to pay
attention to the size of the top teams.
If leaderboard mostly consists of
teams with only one participant,
you'll probably have enough
chances if you gather a good team.
Now, let's move to the next step
after you chose a competition.
As soon as you get familiar with the data,
start to write down your ideas about
what you may want to try later.
What things could work here?
What approaches you may want to take.
After you're done, read forums and
highlight interesting posts and topics.
Remember, you can get a lot of information
and meet new people on forums.
So I strongly encourage you to
participate in these discussions.
After the initial pipeline is ready and
you roll down few ideas, you may want
to start improving your solution.
Personally, I like to organize
these ideas into some structure.
So you may want to sort
ideas into priority order.
Most important and
promising needs to be implemented first.
Or you may want to organize
these ideas into topics.
Ideas about feature generation,
validation, metric optimization.
And so on.
Now pick up an idea and implement it.
Try to derive some insights on the way.
Especially, try to understand why
something does or doesn't work.
For example,
you have an idea about trying a deep
gradient boosting decision tree model.
To your joy, it works.
Now, ask yourself why?
Is there some hidden data
structure we didn't notice before?
Maybe you have categorical features
with a lot of unique values.
If this is the case,
you as well can make a conclusion that
mean encodings may work great here.
So in some sense,
the ability to analyze the work and
derive conclusions while
you're trying out your ideas
will get you on the right track to
reveal hidden data patterns and leaks.
After we checked out most important ideas,
you may want to switch
to parameter training.
I personally like the view,
everything is a parameter.
From the number of features, through
gradient boosting decision through depth.
From the number of layers in
convolutional neural network,
to the coefficient you finally
submit is multiplied by.
To understand what I should tune and
change first, I like to sort all
parameters by these principles.
First, importance.
Arrange parameters from
important to not useful at all.
Tune in this order.
These may depend on data structure,
on target, on metric, and so on.
Second, feasibility.
Rate parameters from, it is easy to tune,
to, tuning this can take forever.
Third, understanding.
Rate parameters from, I know what
it's doing, to, I have no idea.
Here it is important to understand
what each parameter will change
in the whole pipeline.
For example, if you increase
the number of features significantly,
you may want to change ratio of columns
which is used to find the best split
in gradient boosting decision tree.
Or, if you change number of layers
in convolution neural network,
you will need more reports to train it,
and so on.
So let's see, these were some
of my practical guidelines,
I hope they will prove useful for
you as well.
Every problem starts with data loading and
preprocessing.
I usually don't pay much attention to
some sub optimal usage of computational
resources but this particular
case is of crucial importance.
Doing things right at the very beginning
will make your life much simpler and
will allow you to save a lot of time and
computational resources.
I usually start with basic data
preprocessing like labeling,
coding, category recovery,
both enjoying additional data.
Then, I dump resulting data into HDF5 or
MPI format.
HDF5 for Panda's dataframes,
and MPI for non bit arrays.
Running experiment often require
a lot of kernel restarts,
which leads to reloading all the data.
And loading class CSC files
may take minutes while
loading data from HDF5 or MPI formats
is performed in a matter of seconds.
Another important matter is that by
default, Panda is known to store
data in 64-bit arrays, which is
unnecessary in most of the situations.
Downcasting everything to 32 bits will
result in two-fold memory saving.
Also keep in mind that Panda's support
out of the box data relink by chunks,
via chunks ice parameter
in recess fee function.
So most of the data sets may be
processed without a lot of memory.
When it comes to performance evaluation, I
am not a big fan of extensive validation.
Even for medium-sized datasets
like 50,000 or 100,000 rows.
You can validate your models
with a simple train test split
instead of full cross validation loop.
Switch to full CV only
when it is really needed.
For example,
when you've already hit some limits and
can move forward only with
some marginal improvements.
Same logic applies to
initial model choice.
I usually start with LightGBM,
find some reasonably good parameters,
and evaluate performance of my features.
I want to emphasize that
I use early stopping, so
I don't need to tune number
of boosting iterations.
And god forbid start ESVMs,
random forks, or
neural networks, you will waste too
much time just waiting for them to feed.
I switch to tuning the models,
and sampling, and
staking, only when I am satisfied
with feature engineering.
In some ways, I describe my approach as,
fast and dirty, always better.
Try focusing on what is really important,
the data.
Do ED, try different features.
Google domain-specific knowledge.
Your code is secondary.
Creating unnecessary classes and
personal frame box may only make
things harder to change and
will result in wasting your time, so
keep things simple and reasonable.
Don't track every little change.
By the end of competition, I usually
have only a couple of notebooks for
model training and to want notebooks
specifically for EDA purposes.
Finally, if you feel really uncomfortable
with given computational resources,
don't struggle for weeks,
just rent a larger server.
Every competition I start with
a very simple basic solution
that can be even primitive.
The main purpose of such solution
is not to build a good model but
to debug full pipeline from very beginning
of the data to the very end when we write
the submit file into decided format.
I advise you to start with
construction of the initial pipeline.
Often you can find it in baseline
solutions provided by organizers or
in kernels.
I encourage you to read carefully and
write your own.
Also I advise you to follow from simple
to complex approach in other things.
For example, I prefer to start
with Random Forest rather than
Gradient Boosted Decision Trees.
At least Random Forest
works quite fast and
requires almost no tuning
of hybrid parameters.
Participation in data science competition
implies the analysis of data and
generation of features and
manipulations with models.
This process is very similar in spirit
to the development of software and
there are many good practices
that I advise you to follow.
I will name just a few of them.
First of all, use good variable names.
No matter how ingenious you are,
if your code is written badly,
you will surely get confused in it and
you'll have a problem sooner or later.
Second, keep your research reproducible.
FIx all random seeds.
Write down exactly how
a feature was generated, and
store the code under version
control system like git.
Very often there are situation when you
need to go back to the model that you
built two weeks ago and
edit to the ensemble width.
The last and probably the most
important thing, reuse your code.
It's really important to use the same
code at training and testing stages.
For example, features should be prepared
and transforming by the same code
in order to guarantee that they're
produced in a consistent manner.
Here in such places are very
difficult to catch, so
it's better to be very careful with it.
I recommend to move reusable code into
separate functions or even separate model.
In addition, I advise you to read
scientific articles on the topic
of the competition.
They can provide you with
information about machine and
correlated things like for example how
to better optimize a measure, or AUC.
Or, provide the main
knowledge of the problem.
This is often very useful for
future generations.
For example, during Microsoft Mobile
competition, I read article about mobile
detection and used ideas from
them to generate new features.
>> I usually start the competition by
monitoring the forums and kernels.
It happens that a competition starts,
someone finds a bug in the data.
And the competition data is
then completely changed, so
I never join a competition
at its very beginning.
I usually start a competition with
a quick EDA and a simple baseline.
I tried to check the data for
various leakages.
For me, the leaks are one of the most
interesting parts in the competition.
I then usually do several submissions
to check if validation score
correlates with publicly the board score.
Usually, I try to come up with a list
of things to try in a competition, and
I more or less try to follow it.
But sometimes I just try to generate
as many features as possible,
put them in extra boost and
study what helps and what does not.
When tuning parameters,
I first try to make model overfit
to the training set and only then I
change parameters to constrain the model.
I had situations when I could not
reproduce one of my submissions.
I accidentally changed something in
the code and I could not remember what
exactly, so nowadays I'm very
careful about my code and script.
Another problem?
Long execution history in notebooks leads
to lots of defined global variables.
And global variables surely lead to bugs.
So remember to sometimes
restart your notebooks.
It's okay to have ugly code, unless you
do not use this to produce a submission.
It would be easier for
you to get into this code later if
it has a descriptive variable names.
I always use git and
try to make the code for
submissions as transparent as possible.
I usually create a separate notebook for
every submission so I can always run
the previous solution and compare.
And I treat the submission
notebooks as script.
I restart the kernel and
always run them from top to bottom.
I found a convenient way to validate
the models that allows to use validation
code with minimal changes to retrain
a model on the whole dataset.
In the competition, we are provided
with training and test CSV files.
You see we load them in the first cell.
In the second cell, we split
training set and actual training and
validation sets, and
save those to disk as CSV files with
the same structure as given train CSV and
test CSV.
Now, at the top of the notebook,
with my model, I define variables.
Path is to train and test sets.
I set them to create a training and
validation sets when working with
the model and validating it.
And then it only takes me to switch
those paths to original train CSV and
test CSV to produce a submission.
I also use macros.
At one point I was really tired of
typing import numpy as np, every time.
So I found that it's possible to define
a macro which will load everything for me.
In my case, it takes only five symbols to
type the macro name and this macro
immediately loads me everything.
Very convenient.
And finally, I have developed my library
with frequently used functions, and
training code for models.
I personally find it useful, as the code,
it now becomes much shorter,
and I do not need to remember how
to import a particular model.
In my case I just specify
a model with its name, and
as an output I get all the information
about training that I would possibly need.
[SOUND]
[MUSIC]